be very careful about bubbles. Uh, yes,
this is a frothy market. Yes, it's
priced for perfection. Feel free to
underweight. Feel free to fade your
exposure as as it keeps going higher,
but don't bet against it.
>> Hi everyone, I'm Gunjen Banerjee
>> and I'm Telus Deeos. Welcome to another
episode of WSJ's Take on the Week.
>> Tell us, was this week your Super Bowl
with bank earnings? You guys say that
every time there's there's bank
earnings. No, it's my World Series.
Actually, as I think folks know, I'm a
baseball fan.
>> What did you think of the results?
>> They were very, very good. It's a very
good time to be a very big bank.
>> What did we learn about the US consumer
from the big bank's earnings?
>> We learned a lot about banks consumers.
my like hobby horse on this and and feel
free to disagree feel free to disagree
with me but
>> I think that the banks give you a read
in their lending they have everyone's
money every person from every walk of
life
>> probably has money in a large bank right
>> as far as their lending goes and the
bulk of their lending the people who
really have like large balances with
banks
>> they tend to be people who are at the
higher end of the credit spectrum banks
don't really just lend to anyone or if
they do uh it's it's a small amount of
money. It's not a significant part of
their balances. I'm not saying that the
banks don't represent a wide swath of
Americans, but I think as an economic
indicator and in these times where there
isn't government economic data coming
out uh as much as we'd like to see, uh
people turn to banks and say, "What are
banks telling us about the consumer?"
>> But did they tell us anything? Did they
tell us anything about
>> I think they told us that that that the
affluent Americans are doing well and I
think we knew that already. I think we
knew that already. And and you see, you
know, I cited in a story the Bank of
America Institute, which is not um part
of like the the business at the bank,
but they analyze aggregated anonymized
card data across Bank of America. They
look at like debit and credit card
transactions and, you know, kind of look
for patterns there. And and what they
found is that there's a real situation
going on with spending growth. Higher
income consumers, their spending growth
is
>> at least keeping up with inflation.
Lower income consumers are not their
their spending is still growing uh is
the trend, but at a way slower pace.
That wasn't the case for a long time.
And so that's why I say look, obviously
if something bad happens in the economy
at large, banks will feel it. We'll
we'll see it in their results. they'll
have to adjust for it. But if we're
looking for canaries and coal mines,
which is what I think we often are in
our markets and finance and banking
conversations and coverage, you know,
here at the journal and and and in other
places, I don't know if banks are going
to be doing that on the consumer side of
things. So, while I I look, I don't
think that banks are necessarily the
world's most reliable economic
indicator, at least the big banks. We
are going to get a bunch of company
earnings coming up this week that I
think will give us various signals about
what people think is going on with
consumers and how, you know, industrial
companies are responding to tariffs.
We've got upcoming earnings from Ford.
Uh we talked with John Murphy a couple
of weeks ago about the both peril and
opportunity for automakers given
different things happening in the
economy both with tariffs and electric
vehicles. Uh we've also got obviously a
lot of consumer companies. Coca-Cola,
Kurig, Dr. Pepper, Kimberly Clark,
Colgate, Palm Olive. A lot of these are
what you might call staples, consumer
staples companies. They tend to perform
well uh when the economy is not doing so
hot, but you know, they also sell
varying tiers of products. And so we'll
see if people are trading up or down to,
you know, the fancier version of soap or
soda or whatever it is. And I think that
I think those things will maybe give us
a little bit more of a signal about the
economy even than necessarily the banks
did.
>> I do think it's so interesting that at a
time when a lot of people are concerned
about maybe a recession on the horizon,
right? How will tariffs impact the US
consumer? We're seeing just a deal
making frenzy like the markets are on a
tear, right? with all these IPOs coming
out. Um well maybe not right now with
the government shutdown but before that
uh we saw these huge one day pops and
then on the other hand you have some
mixed signals where like auto
delinquencies among the lowest income
consumers have been rising right
>> I think we're just talking about two
different I mean America is a large vast
place with a complicated economy and and
so sometimes I think that we look for
linkages or patterns in those things but
the IPO market I think is telling us
something about the markets which is
that investors are hungry for
opportunities to beat their benchmark.
The markets are doing very well right
now. And what that means is that
investors need something that might pop.
And IPOs are an opportunity. IPOs aren't
in indexes. IPOs are are are a market
indicator, I would say, not an economic
indicator.
>> From a market perspective, um it seems
like the record run is continuing. We
saw a 2 3% sell-off in major indexes.
That was one of the worst days of the
year because all of a sudden trade
tensions with China were back.
>> And what's interesting is that the
market rallied back even though those
tensions didn't go away. Yeah. Uh and so
despite the fact that none of that has
really been resolved, the market rallied
back
>> and people kept on buying the dip.
>> Given that there are pockets of concern
about consumers, why are they yoloing
like never before in the markets? How
does that how do you square those two
things? I think it has to do with how
this trade has done. You know, buying
the dip has simply worked the past few
years. So, it's reinforced this belief
that you should keep doing it and and
we've seen that recently. And to your
point about yoloing, you know, we saw
big deleveraging in the market during
that Friday 2 3% selloff. A lot of
crypto trades were hammered. You know,
ETFs that borrow a lot to turbocharge
their returns got crushed. But that did
not dim appetite for those trades over
the following week. I think people piled
right back into those risky trades. And
I think people still people do still
have money to spend. People do still
have money to put into the markets. Like
when you look at the flows into money
market funds this year, bond funds,
stock funds, they've been crazy. Like
all three have just drawn a torrent of
cash in 2025.
>> I think an interesting little sliver of
that is banks talking about the
commercial economy. We talked a little
bit about it last week uh with our guest
uh Chris Whan talking about some
concerns about the commercial part of
the economy. Are there going to be
companies, especially sort of midsize
companies who aren't big publicly traded
companies, but but are still cogs in the
economy that are going to be struggling
with what's going on in the economy or
with leverage? There were a couple of
instances where banks had to take losses
on uh lending. And Jaime Diamond said
something colorful, which is what Jaime
often does. He says sometimes when you
see one cockroach there are more
>> y
>> and that I think has worried people
about is there something happening in
the credit markets is there too much
leverage there are too many companies
borrowing such that any economic hiccup
even if it's not a big one could derail
them but here's what you saw during the
buy the dip trade and that's why I think
I think I really take your point about
how this is just an exuberant moment and
people these trades keep working so
there was there was widening of spreads
in credit markets.
>> Yes. In the riskiest in the riskiest
bonds,
>> high yield bonds really gap gapped out
meaning people sold those things. The
yields went up.
>> But then
>> during the
reversal of that, those things went
right back.
>> But I think that's why a lot of people
are concerned about a bubble right now.
And we spoke extensively about this
earlier in the week with Rob Arnot who
is the founder of Research Affiliates.
And it's always a treat to chat chat
with Rob.
>> What a perfectly timed conversation
because that's really the question. Can
can the market stay at these levels? Is
it a new normal or should we be thinking
about Okay, obviously it has to correct
at some point.
>> We will hear from Rob after the break.
Rob, thank you so much for joining me
today. It's great to have you.
>> It's a privilege. So, there's been a
little bit more volatility in markets
lately, and it feels like the number one
thing on a lot of investors minds is
still this question of, are we in a
market bubble? Um, there's certainly a
lot of signs of speculation out there.
What do you think?
>> My short answer to that is, uh, yeah,
we're in a bubble. Um, longer answer is
don't bet against a bubble because they
can last longer and go further than you
can possibly imagine. My favorite
example is the Zimbabwe stock market
during their hyperinflation. Uh start of
the summer of 2008, the currency
cratered 10fold in six weeks and the
stock market rose 500fold in local
currency terms, 50fold in US dollar
terms. So if you bet against it, putting
2% of your net worth in it, uh you just
wiped yourself out. So be very careful
about bubbles. Uh yes, this is a frothy
market. Yes, it's priced for perfection.
Feel free to underweight. Feel free to
fade your exposure as as it keeps going
higher, but don't bet against it.
>> So, how do you trade a bubble? What can
an investor do if they're worried about
things being frothy?
>> Very, very simple. Harry Marowitz
famously said, "Diversification is the
only free lunch in investing." Um uh he
later went on to say u uh
diversification and mean reversion are
the only two free lunches in investing
and um that's true. Mean reversion is uh
something you can expect in all sorts of
things in earnings in price activity in
macroeconomic variables. Uh but it acts
over long periods of time. it's not
reliable short term and uh
diversification is always available to
us. Uh we run a multi-asset strategy for
PIMCO. That diversification
is currently priced at really attractive
levels. We have a website uh uh asset
allocation interactive that estimates
forward returns on 160 different asset
classes. And based on that work, uh,
we're forecasting 6040 returns of
somewhere between four and 5% over the
next 10 years. That's not brilliant. And
we're seeing forward-looking returns of
7 to 8%. For liquid alternatives, um,
that's a nice pickup in return. So, for
the patient investor, diversify. For the
impatient investor, diversify a little
bit. Um, and the second thing you can do
is tilt towards value. Once again, don't
bet the ranch on it. Value's been awful
since 2007, but
>> that's a long time, Rob.
>> That's a long time.
>> It's a long time. Uh, as a lifelong
value investor, uh, it's a little
frustrating being in the longest and
deepest downturn in the history of value
investing. But what's fascinating is the
underperformance of value is not at all
due to the underlying companies doing
badly. It's entirely due to the spread
in valuation getting wider and wider and
wider. And that is actually good news
for value investors because a if there's
mean reversion uh you can get it back
remarkably fast and b even if there's no
mean reversion you're getting cheaper
assets with higher yields higher
earnings yields and uh therefore a more
attractive long-term future return. So,
you're saying the spread between growth
stocks, these high-flying growth stocks,
and more beaten down value stocks is at
all-time highs.
>> It's at an extreme. During the dotcom
bubble, um academics like like to use
price to book, the spread valuation
between growth and value at the top of
the dot bubble reached 8:1 on price to
book value. Uh it compressed to 3:1 by
2007. So the enormous bull market in
value from 2000 to 2007 was in large
measure just the market uh pricing value
at a skinnier discount than usual. It
then widened back to 9:1 by the summer
of 2020 and it's back to between 8 and
9:1 today. So it's in the bottom two or
three percentiles of historic relative
cheapness. So, I I was at a technology
conference in Dallas recently and
everyone seemed so bullish on AI. This
was a question looming over the
conference, right? Are we in a bubble?
What what indicators do you look at?
Like what are the different metrics
you're tracking right now that tell you
yes, we are?
>> One of them is the underlying
fundamentals. The underlying
fundamentals of AI related companies um
are terrific
but they're not growing fast enough to
justify u the premiums that they command
in general. Take the.com bubble. The.com
bubble was built on a narrative that uh
uh the internet will change everything.
True. Absolutely true. The narrative
went on to say these are the dominant
players in the internet and they'll
remain dominant and that wasn't true.
Disruptors get disrupted. The third part
of the narrative is uh the timeline. The
narrative was this is going to happen
shockingly fast and it didn't. The world
of 2005 was very similar to the world of
2000. A very similar narrative is
happening with AI. This is going to
change everything. thought a adoption
will be slower than people think.
Humankind embraces change grudgingly and
gradually and uh b
we don't know who the dominant players
will be in 10 years. It won't
necessarily be anyone that's on our
radar screen today. Intel was one of the
five most valuable companies on the
planet uh at the top of the dotcom
bubble. So was Nokia of all things.
Fifth most valuable company on the
planet. Nokia. So narratives get ahead
of themselves. How does it unwind?
There's one thing happening today that
could slow the correction of bubble
pricing today and that is the surge of
money into index funds. It is
overwhelming and it drives a wedge
between the value of companies that are
members of the index and companies that
aren't. This is a really fun topic.
We've written a short paper called
membership has its privileges. The
spread in valuation between um members
of the S&P 500 and the Russell 1000 and
non-members was near par in 1995 30
years ago. Now it's 2 and a half to one.
So then the narrative will say these are
better companies. These companies down
here they're garbage. They're they're
not very interesting at all. And in
point of fact, they are small cap. They
are value. And uh as a result of that,
they're at deeply depressed relative
multiples. But here's a fun fact.
Non-members have had earnings and
dividend growth over the last 30 years.
That's faster than members. Not a lot
faster, but faster. If you have faster
growth and you're paying
40% as much per dollar of earnings or
dividends, you're going to get a higher
return from these bargains.
>> This is so fascinating, right? It's
like, do you own a good stock if other
people don't think it's a good stock or
if you know the index world doesn't
think it's a good stock? And I've been
shocked to see the inflows this year to
stock funds, bond funds, money market
funds. There's just so much money out
there and there has been a torrent of
cash pouring into everything it seems
like.
>> Now, part of that is stimulus driven.
>> Yep.
>> Um
I think a fun analogy is fiscal stimulus
is like um opening the fire hydrants on
a street in Manhattan in summer. Um the
water pressure in the neighborhood goes
down. People can't get water out of
their taps, but boy, those with buckets
close to the uh uh fire hydrant can get
all the water they want. Who has those
buckets? Financial services companies
and uh broadly corporate America. So,
there's something called the the profits
um equation that demonstrates a link
between uh corporate profits and um uh
deficit spending.
So the the fiscal stimulus is a big
contributor to the growth of corporate
earnings and to the flow of cash that
makes its way into the stock market and
liquidity drives share prices. So the
the risk is you cut the deficit, you
behave in a responsible fashion. The
good news is more money can flow into
actual investment as opposed to existing
company stock. And the bad news is
you're liable to crater share prices and
crater earnings in the interim before
the incremental growth in the economy
kicks in, which takes a little while.
>> So, speaking of stimulus, the Federal
Reserve is poised to cut rates again.
What does that mean for markets?
>> Uh, it's another stimulus to the
markets. Right now, we have a bipartisan
embrace of reckless stimulus, fiscal and
monetary. Think about the purpose of
interest rates. Interest rates are there
to reward the lender for deferring
consumption.
And to lightly penalize the borrower so
that they don't spend money recklessly.
Really simple. I liken it to a speed
bump where no speed bump, somebody's
going to do reckless driving. speed
bumps. Um, great. No reckless driving.
Big speed bump, traffic stops cold.
So, interest rates are that speed bump.
A really simple expedient is to say,
what's CPI?
Fed funds maybe should be about a
percent above that. What's the long bond
telling us is the fair cost of default
risk-free long debt? Fed funds should be
about a percent below that. Well, right
now with inflation in the mid twos and
uh long rates in the fours, three and a
half seems about right. So, I have no
problem with the notion of the Fed
cutting. And I have a big problem with
Trump getting his way with a two or 300
basis point cut.
>> But it seems like, you know, this is a
cornerstone of what's driven markets
higher this year. This so-called run it
hot trade, right? this idea that
interest rates falling, stimulus will
kind of rev up the economy in coming
months or over the next year. What do
you make of that trade?
>> There's merit in the trade and that's
another reason not to not to fade the
bubble too aggressively or too soon. Um
I'm not saying we should try to pick up
nickels in front of a steamroller uh
until the steamroller is right right on
top of us. I I am saying fade it gently
uh because uh there could be a ways ways
to run here. We just don't know.
>> The uh indexation the flood of money
into indexation the flood of money
coming from fiscal and monetary
stimulus. This tends to fuel bull
markets and watch for hints that it may
be coming to an end because uh the end
of fiscal and monetary stimulus would
almost certainly trigger a an earnings
recession
and a bare market. That's one thing
everybody in government is terrified of
of being the one who creates it.
>> How are you thinking about tariffs right
now as they pertain to portfolios? You
know, it's it's been such a switch from
earlier this year when Liberation Day
rattled markets. Since then, stocks have
been at records and now over the past
week or so, we have seen some of those
tariff fears return. How are you
thinking about all of this?
>> Yeah. Uh I think tariffs are overrated
in terms of their economic impact. Um a
tariff is is is just a tax. I mean, uh
think of a 20% tariff as a 20% value
added tax selectively applied to
imports. All right. Lots of countries
have 20% value added tax on everything
more or less. Bottom line is small
tariffs are not a big deal. Big tariffs
are a big deal. Uh
there is a laugher curve when it comes
to tariffs. You recall laugher sketch on
a napkin where he said zero tax, zero
revenue, 100% tax, zero revenue. There's
a sweet spot in the middle. Same thing
applies to tariffs. Uh zero tax, zero
revenues. 10 20% tax, lots of revenues.
50 100% tax, not much.
>> I do wonder if it's too soon to know the
impacts of tariffs on inflation. It
feels like this has taken so much longer
for things to play out in markets and
the economy than we initially thought
around liberation day, right? like well
>> the narrative on Wall Street was this is
going to be catastrophic. I never
believed that.
>> I thought I thought this is going to be
disruptive to geopolitics,
disruptive to trade, but in terms of
recessionary odds, I didn't think it
changed the recession odds terribly
much. That said, you know, the economy
is running a little hot and the chance
of there being a recession in the coming
12 to 24 months is not negligible.
>> One thing I've been wondering is we've
seen some of the most volatility the
past few trading sessions than we have
all year, right? These have been some of
the worst days for the stock market all
year. And I'm curious how you're
thinking about some of this recent
volatility. Is this, you know, the start
of a bigger unwind? Well, anyone who
says that they know when it's the start
of an unwind is a liar. Um, uh, I don't
think it's the start of an unwind. I
wouldn't rule it out. I think it's just
a reaction to the, um, uh, China trade
war, which has heated up.
>> We're going to take one quick break and
then I have a final question for Rob
Arnot.
[Music]
We've talked a lot about bubbles today.
What is the number one indicator you
follow to tell yourself or to gauge if
things are frothy or not?
>> Back in 2018, we came up with a
definition for bubble that is usable in
real time. Our definition is really
simple and that is that a valuation
model like a discounted cash flow model,
you'd have to make implausible growth
assumptions to justify today's price.
That's part one. And part two is a
validation of that. The the marginal
buyer doesn't care about valuation
models. And if those two conditions are
true, you've got a bubble. When you see
stocks trading at 10 or 100 times sales,
that is a heck of a red flag.
>> But as you said, be really careful when
betting against a bubble, right?
>> That's exactly right,
>> Rob. This has been great. Thank you so
much.
Thank you very much.
[Music]
>> Well, that's fascinating. I'm excited to
hear about this.
>> Thank you for your enthusiasm.
>> I know. I I'm not only am I a co-host of
this show, I'm also a fan. So, I will be
I'll be rapidly listening and watching
on YouTube.
[Music]